5.FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PHILOSOPHY
KSBL practices a need-blind admission policy. All applicants are strongly encouraged to apply regardless of their financial status. The assessment and acceptance process at KSBL is based on an applicant's academic performance, professional experience, references, integrity and values and potential, and NOT on their ability to fund their studies.

FINANCIAL AID POLICY
KSBL believes in nurturing the talented youth of Pakistan. We have adopted a "need-blind” admissions policy, which means that every application for admission is evaluated only based on academic merit and personal abilities without looking at the applicant's financial status and ability to pay.

Once admission is offered, the Financial Aid Office at KSBL will then review the applicant's financial status and structure a financial assistance package suitable to the applicant's requirements. This assistance may consist of interest-free loans, scholarships, and work-study programs, teaching and research assistantship, among others.

Students must apply for financial assistance if he/she wishes to benefit from it. A Financial Assistance Committee will ascertain the need of the students based on household income, number of dependents of the principal income earners, monthly expenses and others. Students benefitting from any financial assistance at KSBL must maintain a CGPA of 3.0 in case of graduate programs and 2.5 in case of undergraduate programs.
----------
FINANCIAL AID OFFICE
The Financial Aid Office compiles essential information from a student's financial aid application form, which is supported by an independent lifestyle and a physical survey of the applicant. The process of financial aid disbursement at KSBL is quite rigorous. The completed and verified information is put up to the Financial Aid Committee, which decides the financial aid package on a case-by-case basis.

Email ID: financialassistance@ksbl.edu.pk
----------
Does KSBL offer any Financial Assistance?
Ans. A vast majority (more than 65%) of KSBL students are on some form of Financial Assistance and Merit Scholarships. KSBL believes in the provision of education for all and offers generous need and merit-based assistance. We offer financial assistance in different forms. Students who top the merit list are given merit-based financial assistance. Moreover, students, who are unable to pay the fee, can apply for need-based financial assistance through a simple application form.
For more details, please visit https://www.ksbl.edu.pk/mba/financial-assistance/
----------
When can we apply for financial assistance?
Ans. You can apply for financial assistance when you fill out your admission application form. The financial assistance form will be activated once you complete your application. But the FA application will be processed once you confirm your admission.
----------
The following is taken from the Faculty Workload Policy

The normal workload of each faculty member in KSBL is set at 60 Credit Units (CUs) per academic year (unless otherwise stated). Faculty members have three dimensioned responsibilities of teaching, research, and service. A rough guideline for faculty members' workload distribution among these dimensions is outlined below.
Teaching: 40
Research / Scholarship: 12
Service: 8
Total CU: 60

A faculty member may not exceed the total CUs for an academic year except with the permission of the Dean.

This policy shall apply to the full-time faculty members and concurrent staff.
----------
3. Teaching Credit Units
3.1 A faculty member (whose primary responsibilities includes teaching, scholarship, and service) is expected to teach a minimum workload of 4 courses (32 CUs) in an academic year earned from teaching four courses/sections from Undergraduate and Graduate programs or any other combination of equivalent load.
----------
5 Minimum and Maximum CUs
As stated above, assistant professors and above are expected to undertake a minimum of 32 CUs of teaching and 8 CUs of research in an academic year. Someone (assistant professor or above) who has earned the minimum CUs in teaching and/or research may earn the remaining CUs (for a combined total of 52 CUs from teaching and research) from classroom teaching, scholarship, or research, as desired by him/her. The following table provides the upper and lower limits of teaching and research workload:

Credit Units (CUs)/Year | Teaching | Research
Minimum | 32 | 8
Maximum | 44 | 20