The following document is the official student handbook published by KSBL.

2022-2023
STUDENT HANDBOOK
1
RECTOR’S MESSAGE
These evolving times are all about a holistic, digital, and global outlook while making ethics and character the bedrock for sustainability. Whether you are a student gearing up for the gig economy, a socially conscious start-up, or a corporate giant, all feed into one global system enabled by technology and continuous learning. At KSBL, we are geared to become an agile ecosystem set to forge lifelong partnerships with all our stakeholders and create global impact, all for the benefit of current and future generations.
Welcome to KSBL.
Mubashar Hameed
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. SCOPE
This Student Handbook introduces you to the procedures and codes of conduct for students at KSBL. This Student Handbook Is here to help you, so keep it safe, refer to it, and let it guide you throughout the program that you are enrolled in. This document is updated periodically, so be sure to check it from time to time.
2. OUR VISION & MISSION
Vision
To develop purpose-driven leaders who can make meaningful contribution to society through contemporary knowledge and ethical decision making.
Mission
A leading international business school that provides future business leaders with the knowledge and skills to compete in a global marketplace through the promotion of ethical leadership behaviour, entrepreneurialism, technology savviness, global mindedness, and sustainability focus.
3. THE PROGRAMS
At KSBL, we offer the following degree programs:
1. Master of Business Administration (MBA)
2. Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)
3. MS in Business Analytics (MSBA)
4. BS in Management & Entrepreneurship (BS M&E))
5. BS in Information Technology & Systems (BS IT&S)
6. BS in Accounting & Finance (BS A&F)
MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
MBA, our flagship program, prepares students and professionals to adapt, challenge themselves and shape their future. The program enhances management and leadership skills for a dynamic global environment driven by innovation. KSBL MBA connects students to C-suite executives and accomplished practitioners while they learn from leading faculty. This industry-focused, casebased pedagogy gives lifelong perspectives on how organizations can convert challenges into opportunities
6
With flexibility of class schedules, our MBA program provides a stimulating and transformational educational experience to students and professionals with diverse backgrounds. The Program is based on cutting-edge teaching methodologies and a hands-on approach to learning. All this has led to our MBA graduates going places with a multitude of career possibilities, be it in big corporations, local businesses, or the gig economy.
The program is 30 credit hours for students with 16-year business education and 60 credit hours for others. Specializations are offered in FINTECH, Digital Marketing, Talent Management, Supply Chain, Information Management and General Management.
EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Executive MBA (EMBA) at KSBL is an opportunity for experienced professionals and entrepreneurs to prepare for future leadership roles. KSBL EMBA is designed to enhance functional expertise, sound management capabilities, and decision-making skills. Our program allows professionals to acquire advanced business education while pursuing their careers. Having innovation and futurism at its core, the program enables you to perform optimally and lead crosscultural and interdepartmental teams.

KSBL EMBA program is designed for professionals and entrepreneurs having more than five (5) years of experience. The program offers a stimulating learning environment where experienced professionals with diverse backgrounds exchange ideas and solve complex problems of a fastchanging world. Among others, KSBL EMBA program is distinct because of its simulation-based pedagogy, unique networking opportunities and interactions with C-suite executives.
The program is 30 credit hours for students with 16-year business education and 60 credit hours for others. Specializations are offered in FINTECH, Digital Marketing, Talent Management, Supply Chain, Information Management and General Management.
MS IN BUSINESS ANALYTICS
MS in Business Analytics at KSBL takes a skills-based approach to business analytics with technology and innovation at its core. With the evolution of new data sources stemming from digitization, the markets require a skill set with in-depth understanding and dynamism that is not as prevalent. Our program thus aims to coach managers, and leaders turn data into in-depth insights for optimal decision making for their businesses to operate in this new environment. This program is designed also keeping in view the early movers in the field seeking to pursue, switch to, or advance their career with the data revolution of these times and the tremendous potential it offers. Our cutting-edge program, thus, aims to fulfill industry demand by offering a combination of technical tools, software, business education and hands-on real-world problem solving so the learning on analytics comes full circle.
7
BS IN MANAGEMENT & ENTREPRENEURSHIP
BS in Management & Entrepreneurship (M&E) is designed with two most important factors in view – your career and professional grooming. The 4-year program trains you holistically on the concepts of management and prepares you to launch your career in a global environment. And because of focus on ethics, sustainability, and technology, you can explore opportunities and trends in a more effective manner. The deep understanding of core business competencies and the creative pedagogy that instills critical thinking and a wider world view enables you to seamlessly blend into the workforce. BS-M&E gives you the comprehensive undergraduate training, so you develop an entrepreneurial mindset that is driven by the latest in management and business studies. After completing this program, you will see yourself involved with new ventures, seeking new opportunities – be it large organizations or start-ups in a rapidly evolving gig economy. Specializations are offered in Marketing, Finance, and Human Resource Management.

BS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & SYSTEMS
BS IT&S offers 4-years rigorous training to develop technical expertise and mindset of delivering IT as a service so the organization and its employees can respond to changing business environments. Our BS degree in IT and Systems not only prepares students to understand the business problems behind software design, but it also equips them with the aptitude to develop innovative ways to manage data. The program will enable young minds to understand information systems holistically and how it incorporates the technology, people and processes involved with information.
BS IN ACCOUNTING & FINANCE
BS Accounting and Finance program is a 120-credit hours 4-year degree program that will enable students to gain the requisite skillset in accounting and finance areas and also potentially gain exemptions from professional bodies’ examinations. This professionally oriented qualification, by combining cutting-edge theory with real-world practice, will enable students to think critically, analyse and interpret real life business issues in order to devise solutions and will help them to prepare for a career in accountancy, financial services, or management.
CAPSTONE PROJECTS
Both graduate and undergraduate program students must complete a Capstone Project as a part of their degree program. Each student must form a group with his/her peers. Maximum group
8
size is 4. Each group will be assigned a Project Advisor who will provide the necessary guidelines to the group members. The scope of the Capstone Project shall be determined under supervision of the Project Advisor.
Each project group shall develop a Project Proposal during the second last semester, which shall be reviewed and approved by the Project Advisor and Project Coordinator jointly (each Teaching Department has a declared Project Coordinator). All members of the project group must meet with the Project Advisor at least fortnightly.
At the culmination of the project, students will be required to submit a report which shall be an original work not plagiarized from any source. Please make sure that you follow the highest ethical research standards in your research.
ASSESSMENT SCHEME
Each course is graded out of 100 marks. This, normally, includes a mid-term assessment called mid-term examination and a terminal assessment called final examination. Both these assessments are held in dedicated weeks called examination weeks mentioned in the academic calendar. Schedule for all such examinations is announced by the Examination Department. Some courses replace the mid-term and/or final examinations with other assessments like presentation and projects etc. The course’s teacher will inform you about the assessment scheme for each
course.
Additionally, throughout the semester, assessment like assignments, quizzes, projects, presentations, simulations, management games, case discussions, class participation etc. are conducted. Each faculty member assigns individual assessment weight to each assessment in his/her course. Make sure that you know what each assessment is worth out of 100 marks.
GRADING SCHEME
Passing marks for each undergraduate course are forty percent and for each graduate course are fifty percent. All courses with ten or less students are graded on a fixed scale given below:

Grade | Grade Points | MASTERS % obtained | BACHELORS % obtained
A | 4 .00 | 80 and above | 85 and above
A- | 3.66 | 75 – 79 | 80 – 84
B+ | 3.33 | 70 – 74 | 75 – 79
B | 3.00 | 65 – 69 | 69 – 74
B- | 2.66 | 61 – 64 | 63 – 68
C+ | 2.33 | 57 – 60 | 57 – 62
C | 2.00 | 53 – 56 | 52 – 56
C- | 1.66 | 50 – 52 | 47 – 51
D+ | 1.30 | N/A | 44 – 46
D | 1.00 | N/A | 40 – 43
F | 0.00 | Below 50 | Below 40

9
For courses with eleven or more students, relative grading is used. Mean score of a class is graded as B with grades aligned on either side within one, two, three, etc. standard deviations. All results of fixed or relative grading are finalized by a Grading Committee under the supervision of the Dean.
4. RESOURCES AT KSBL
INFORMATION RESOURCE CENTER
The KSBL Information Resource Center (IRC) has an extensive collection of books on a variety of topics including social sciences, accounting, management, finance, marketing, leadership etc. Access to journals, magazines, and newspapers is also available. Our qualified librarian will assist you in your learning needs. We encourage you to make full use of the IRC. IRC is governed by the following rules:
1. Silence needs to be always maintained in the IRC.
2. Cell phones should be on silent mode.
3. Telephone calls should be received outside the IRC premises.
4. IRC materials should be used with care. Do not mark books in any way.
5. Bringing eatable items in the IRC is not allowed.
6. Do not hesitate to ask for help from the IRC's staff whenever required.
7. IRC privileges may be denied to persons who violate any of the rules.

10
8. No material shall be taken away from the IRC without prior permission of the IRC staff.
9. Books are strictly non-transferable.
COMPUTING FACILITIES
Today, technology is an essential tool for acquiring education and conducting research. Our Information Technology Services Department (ITSD) provides state-of-the-art hardware, infrastructure, and software to ensure high quality content delivery and uninterrupted services to all users.
The following Information Technology Services are available on campus:
1. State-of-the-art audio and visual facilities along with a high-definition video conferencing setup in the Lecture Halls and the Auditorium.
2. Our campus is equipped with a "Hot Spot" that provides reliable, efficient and campuswide Wi-Fi connectivity for academic requirements.
3. 100 Mbps dedicated, uninterrupted and redundant fiber internet bandwidth availability.
4. A web-enabled Learning Management System is accessible to every student and faculty for collaboration and resource sharing within campus or remotely.
5. Microsoft office 365 email system accessible throughout the campus or remotely.
6. Hybrid PABX system providing analogue extensions with provisioning of IP phones on need basis.
7. Security and access control.
8. Capability of on-campus video streaming, webcasting and podcasting services.
9. Online Microsoft office portal which is a part of Office 365 communication and collaboration system.
LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Colaraz is a global talent development and optimization platform; and exchange network – for students, employers, and universities. KSBL has implemented the Colaraz’s Learning Management System. You will experience a paperless environment where all your class transactions like assignment submission and examinations will be on the Colaraz LMS.
VIDEO CONFERENCING & SMART CLASSROOM SETUP
We have implemented the concept of smart classrooms and provide the latest tools and technology to faculty and students for a world class learning experience. One of our lecture halls, with a capacity of about 70 students, is capable of handling High-Definition Video Conferencing Calls from 3 sites simultaneously. Hence, three different sites and the campus location can all participate in a single lecture delivery session. The system is also integrated with an Internet
11
Protocol (IP) streaming solution required for recording and streaming the lectures on-demand or real-time as per the lecture or seminar requirements. The entire video conferencing setup along with the audio-visual setup are integrated and controlled through a control panel available to the lecturer. Hence, the concept of a true smart classroom setup is achieved by providing lighting zone controls, microphones and speaker controls, presentation, and video conferencing controls. The system is also provided with a bypass option to ensure the control of individual objects in case of any emergency.
Besides this, every learning room is equipped with a white board, over-head projectors and projection screens, whereas document cameras, liquid crystal display (LCD) and light-emitting diode (LED), televisions (TVs) and audio-visual setup are provided in selected Lecture Halls, the Auditorium and Seminar rooms.
INTERNET SERVICES
High speed internet connectivity is available throughout the campus. The KSBL Campus is Wi-Fi enabled, which allows students to access reading materials anytime and anywhere on campus.
EMAIL SYSTEM, IT SERVICES, AND PRINTING ROOM
A Microsoft Office 365 Messaging and Collaboration system is available to students, faculty, staff and visiting faculty. Integrated with Microsoft Teams and group-chat feature provided 50 GB of email space and 1TB of OneDrive space. Students also have access to network printers, photocopier, and scanners.
CAFETERIA
The cafeteria offers you a wide variety of snacks to choose from at affordable rates. The Campus cafeteria is open from 9:00 AM to 10:00 PM every day. In addition to the cafeteria, you can also try out restaurants in the immediate vicinity of KSBL Campus.
Located in the city center, environs of the city campus have plenty of eateries located in the surrounding area of Bahadurabad, and Dohraji Colony which include outlets of prominent food chains like Student Biryani, KFC, Pizza Hut, and others. Visit these restaurants when you need to take a break from studies. Enjoy!
MEDICAL EMERGENCIES
The Campus has a first aid box for its students to handle minor ailments. However, in case of an emergency medical treatment, the student can be taken to the following hospitals in the vicinity:
1. Aga Khan University Hospital ((021) 111-911-911)
12
2. Liaquat National Hospital ((021) 111 456 456)
Both the hospitals are adjacent to the Campus.
FITNESS CENTER
Students have access to a modern fitness center during all working days from 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM.
5.FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PHILOSOPHY
KSBL practices a need-blind admission policy. All applicants are strongly encouraged to apply regardless of their financial status. The assessment and acceptance process at KSBL is based on an applicant's academic performance, professional experience, references, integrity and values and potential, and NOT on their ability to fund their studies.
FINANCIAL AID POLICY
KSBL believes in nurturing the talented youth of Pakistan. We have adopted a "need-blind” admissions policy, which means that every application for admission is evaluated only based on academic merit and personal abilities without looking at the applicant's financial status and ability to pay.
Once admission is offered, the Financial Aid Office at KSBL will then review the applicant's financial status and structure a financial assistance package suitable to the applicant's requirements. This assistance may consist of interest-free loans, scholarships, and work-study programs, teaching and research assistantship, among others.
Students must apply for financial assistance if he/she wishes to benefit from it. A Financial Assistance Committee will ascertain the need of the students based on household income, number of dependents of the principal income earners, monthly expenses and others. Students benefitting from any financial assistance at KSBL must maintain a CGPA of 3.0 in case of graduate programs and 2.5 in case of undergraduate programs.
6. GUIDELINE TO RULES & REGULATIONS
ADMISSION STATUS
All admissions are provisional unless students have submitted all the required documents and KSBL has verified those documents. All students whose admissions have been confirmed will be notified.
13
ADMISSION DEFERMENT
A student who has secured admission at KSBL can defer his/her joining for one semester/year after paying the admission fee and the security deposit and submitting the complete documents required for admission. Duration of the Academic Program for such students shall start once they join the program.
MIGRATION / TRANSFER OF CREDITS
Migration of the students from other HEIs to KSBL in all kinds of Academic Programs shall be on the following grounds:
1. Student is coming from a program offered by an HEC recognized Higher Education Institution.
2. Student has not finished the degree that he/she is request the transfer of credit from.
3. The CGPA of the student in the degree was at least 2.50.
4. The credits transferred shall not be counted in calculating the CGPA of the student.
5. Students with transferred credits shall not be eligible for the award of medals.
Transfer of credits is made on a case-to-case basis by the Admissions Committee.
REGISTRATION
Each student must register in courses that he/she wishes to study before the start of each semester. Admissions Department automatically registers all new admissions to the first semester courses. However, you must register for subsequent courses once the first semester is over. Registration is done by submitting a form to the Student Services Department and on payment of the prescribed fee.
Students must register in a minimum number of courses in a semester to remain a bona fide student of KSBL. Similarly, there is a maximum limit to the number of courses a student may register in a semester. The table below will provide further guidance:
Program | Minimum Credit Hours to be Registered | Maximum Credit Hours to be Registered
BS (all programs) | 12 | 18
MBA / EMBA (30 Cr. Hrs) | 09 | 12
MBA / EMBA (60 Cr. Hrs) | 09 | 15
MS | 09 | 12
14
Students of the last two semester may request registration in additional credit hours if (1) their CGPA is 3.5 and (2) they need the additional courses to graduate on time.
Students may add a course or drop from it within the first two weeks of a semester. Any course dropped within two weeks does not appear on the transcript. After the second week, a student may choose to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal means that you do not wish to attempt the course and wish that it does not count in your CGPA calculation. In case of withdrawal, W grade shall be recorded on the transcript. A student may withdraw from a course till the end of the seventh week of classes. Courses cannot be withdrawn once the eight week begins.
PREREQUISITES COURSE
The pre-requisite course requirement is strictly be followed: students are required to ensure to clear pre-requisite courses for the registration of advance course registration.
REPEATING COURSES
A student must repeat a course if he/she has failed in the previous attempt. Moreover, a student may choose to repeat a course to improve grade. Any course in which a student has scored C (undergraduate program) or C+ grade (graduate program) or below may be repeated. Undergraduate students may repeat up to five already passed courses. Similarly, graduate students may repeat up to three already passed courses. All such attempts will be recorded in the transcript but the attempt with the highest grade will be used for CGPA calculation.
FREEZING A SEMESTER
If a student needs to take a break from the program for personal or professional reasons, he/she student may “freeze” a semester by submitting a written application to the Student Services Department. Such applications may be submitted till the end of the seventh week but no later. If application is submitted before the commencement of a semester, the student will not be required to submit any fee. However, if such an application is submitted after a semester has started but before the beginning of the third week, the fee due/paid will be adjusted against the following semester. No fee will be adjusted if the semester is frozen after two weeks of the commencement of the semester.
Students may freeze more than one semester but shall be mindful of the maximum degree duration allowed.
15
MAXIMUM DEGREE DURATION
All undergraduate degrees must be completed in six years of the commencement of first semester. All graduate degrees must be completed in three years of the start of the first semester.
UNREGISTERED STUDENTS
Enrollment of students who neither register themselves in a semester nor apply for freezing a semester will be considered as suspended. Such students shall apply for removal of enrollment suspension to the Dean in writing before resuming the program.
ATTENDANCE
The students’ academic success, achievements and class attendance are closely intertwined. Therefore, students are required to attend all classes. Attendance is marked at the start of each session. Students must maintain 75% attendance to be eligible for being considered for appearing in the Final Assessment.
Further, in case of an ambiguity, student can request for his/her attendance in 48 hours after the held session at studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk by keeping in loop to the concerned faculty and TA. The student will be responded in next 24 hours, after that any correspondence for the adjustment of attendance will not be entertained.
The absence allowance is to accommodate personal / family / official engagements, travel etc.
Leave may be granted In case the student attendance is short due to the death in family and/or medical reason, the student will require to apply in writing at studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk along with the evidences as mentioned below, so, the request will be subject to the approval by the Competent Authority.
Case | Required Documents
Death in Family | Death Certificate
Illness/Medical Reason | Medical Proofs e.g., Doctor’s prescription, certificate, and reports.
EXCEPTIONAL LEAVE REQUEST
The one-day attendance waiver has been set for Diwali, Holi, and Christmas etc. A maximum of 40% leverage including 25% allowance has been set for Hajj. The student will require to officially submit request in writing at studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk for the concerned religious event.
16
INTERNSHIP
A non-credit Internship of 06 weeks minimum shall be mandatory for all BS and some of the MBA programs on completion of at least the 6th and 2nd semester, respectively. Degree shall not be awarded unless the Internship is completed in the manner provided under the KSBL Career Services Manual.
EXAMINATION GUIDELINES
The Examinations Department would announce the schedules for mid-term and final assessments. The final examinations are an integral part of the degree program and are held at the end of each semester. Depending upon the course requirement and structure, there may be an alternative final exam (e.g., take home examination, term project, lab exam) or any other assessment method specified by the instructor in the course outline.
The course instructor determines the duration for each exam. Students are required to comply with all the instructions announced by the invigilator or instructor before the start of the exam. Any violation of the instructions issued by the instructor or invigilation staff will be reported immediately, which may result in the cancellation of the student(s) exam and disciplinary action might be taken against those who are found in violation of the instructions.

General examination guidelines are as follows:
1. Students should only bring permissible items as specified by the course instructor.
2. Students should arrive at least 15 minutes early to the designated examination room/auditorium.
3. All examinations are conducted on laptop computers. Every student is expected to bring
a laptop for the mid-term and final examination unless otherwise intimated.
4. There is zero tolerance towards the use of unfair means and all cases are presented in front of the Academic Integrity Committee.
5. The Academic Integrity Committee is authorized to impose penalties on the guilty students after investigation and may recommend penalties including but not limited to awarding zero in the assessment, awarding zero in the course, awarding zero in all courses in a semester, suspension, and/or rustication.
6. In case of open book/Internet examinations, students are required to ensure that they use the allowed material in true spirit and refrain from misuse like copy-pasting etc.
7. Students must mark their attendance on the provided attendance sheet.
8. Examinations Department releases examination instructions before each examination. Make sure to read and understand them before you appear in any examination.
17
Indiscipline in examinations may include the following:
1. Committing impersonation in the examination/assessment.
2. Putting your name or student number on another person's examination/assessment.
3. Presenting/submitting fictitiously, forged, fake, or plagiarized documents connected with the examination/assessment, including submission of academic work for assessment for which academic credit has already been earned.
4. Copying during examination/assessment from other candidates, any paper, book, notes, unauthorized electronic resource.
5. Possessing any kind of material, which may be helpful to him/her in the examination/assessment.
6. Possessing any kind of electronic device which may be helpful in the examination/assessment.
7. Using resources beyond those authorized by the instructor in writing papers and reports, etc.
8. Doing anything that is immoral, illegal, or against KSBL rules and regulations in connection with the examination/assessment and which may be helpful to him/her in the examination/assessment.
9. Refusing to obey the instructions of the invigilator(s) in the examination hall.
10. Misbehaving or creating any disturbance in the examination hall.
11. Collaborating with another student or students in a piece of assessed work without the consent of the instructor.
12. Using abusive or obscene language on the answer script.
13. Possessing any kind of weapon in or around the examination/assessment center.
14. Offering financial or other inducements(s) to any staff or faculty member of the Institute to gain an unfair advantage in the examination/assessment.

All cases are indiscipline in examination are not tolerated and strongly penalized.

MISSED EXAMINATIONS
Examinations dates are shared in the academic calendar released each academic year. Students are advised to plan their personal events accordingly and make sure that they appear in the examinations. In case of genuine issues like illness precluding appearance in the examination, official engagement for working working students, or family bereavement; a request for make-up examination may be made to the Examinations Department. Students will be required to submit all necessary evidence to support their case.
18
Each request for a make-up examination is individually assessed by the Dean. Only those students whose requests for make-up examination have been approved will be allowed to appear in a make-up examination.
MINIMUM CGPA REQUIRED TO GRADUATE
Graduate Programs | 2.50
Undergraduate Programs|  2.00

In any semester, a student shall be placed on probation for failing to maintain the minimum CGPA (GPA if it is the first semester) required shall be dropped from the program on failing to achieve the minima in the following semester.
In case a student secures less than the minimum qualifying CGPA at the end of the final semester, he/she shall be allowed to repeat the coursessubject to maintain maximum duration of program.
HONORS AND AWARDS
A student shall be eligible for an Academic Honor & Award if he/she:
a. Has scored a minimum of 3.5 CGPA.
b. Does not have any repeat exam, credit transfer, or summer session course to his/her credit.
c. Does not have C or below grade in any course throughout the program.
d. Has completed the program within the regular program duration, as defined in these Rules.
e. Has taken full semester load prescribed for any semester for the entire degree program without having withdrawn or repeated any course.
f. Has never been penalized in any disciplinary case at the Institute.
Conditions for Medals
• Subject to the above. the top three graduates with the highest CGPA shall be awarded gold, silver, and bronze medals.
• Gold, Silver, and Bronze Medals shall be awarded to the students who achieve First, Second, and Third highest CGPA.
UNDESIRED CONDUCT
Students are required to adhere to the highest moral and ethical values. They are expected to behave as law abiding citizens who exhibit positivity and a can-do attitude. They are expected to follow all Pakistan’s law, KSBL policies, and universally accepted standards of good conduct.
The following behaviors are deemed as undesirable and are prohibited:
19
1. Sexual harassment: It includes engaging in or threatening to engage in any other nonconsensual conduct of a sexual nature concerning another member of the KSBL. It also includes indecent and obscene gestures or mocking behaviors.
2. Stalking: A course of conduct involving more than one instance of unwanted attention, physical or verbal contact, or any other course of conduct directed at an individual that could be reasonably regarded as likely to alarm that individual or place them in fear of harm or injury, including physical, emotional, or psychological harm. Social media stalking is also included in this.
3. Bullying & Threatening Behavior: It involves systematic, intentional behavior that threatens, intimidates, or is intended to threaten or intimidate others, abusive language, derogatory remarks, or insults, swearing, shouting or use of unsuitable language, written acts, which are hostile or offensive that target at an individual and create an intimidating or threatening environment or a risk of psychological or physical harm. Bullying or threatening on the social media is also included.
4. Causing Physical Harm to a Person: Includes any conduct that causes physical injury to another person's or health or safety including, but not limited to physical violence, assault, use of fireworks, gunpowder, dangerous chemicals, or explosive materials; and blocking or preventing the use of or access to fire exit doors and building hallways, etc.
5. Disruptive Behavior: Engaging in behavior that disrupts or interferes with the learning experience, including talking in class while the faculty member or other students are speaking, creating distractions or disturbances, reading unrelated materials, using cell phones or other electronic devices that disrupt the learning process. This includes both physical and online behaviors.
6. Theft: Taking unauthorized possession of an item not belonging to you or using it in an unauthorized manner.
7. Unauthorized Recording/Filming/Photography: refrain from invading privacy of fellow students, KSBL employees, and other on Campus by video recording, sound recording, and photography without explicit permission from the one concerned.
8. Gambling: Gambling for money/other valuables/any other benefit on results card games and/or other indoor/outdoor activities is prohibited in Campus and with people related to KSBL.
9. Distribution of Unauthorized Material: Do not distribute any material in Campus and/or to your classmates/teachers/others connected with KSBL that can entice violence/ disorder. Material about KSBL that has not been authorized by KSBL Management for distribution to general public must also not be distributed.
10. Obscene Material: You may not possess or access any obscene material in video/audio/animated form using any media of communication whatsoever.
20
11. Forming Gangs: A gang may involve individuals with identifiable leadership that conspires and acts in concert, mainly for criminal purposes. Involvement in gang-related activities may include displaying gang symbols, gang paraphernalia, colors, signs, or graffiti. This includes activities both in Campus and online.
12. Rioting: It involves engaging in, or inciting others to engage in, harmful or destructive behavior in the context of an assembly of persons disturbing the peace. Rioting includes, but is not limited to, such conduct as using or threatening violence to others, damaging or destroying property, impeding or impairing fire or other emergency services, or refusing the direction of authorized personnel.
13. Demonstrations: It includes mass assemblies or demonstrations that disrupt the classroom experience, work environment, or others' movement. This includes social media unauthorized social media campaigns as well.
14. Illegal or Unauthorized Use of Alcohol or Drugs: It includes the unauthorized use, possession, manufacturing, or distribution of illicit drugs, controlled substances, narcotics, or alcoholic beverages or being under the unauthorized influence of the same on Campus.
15. Possession of Weapons: Students are not allowed to bring any weapon to the Campus.
16. Damage to KSBL Property: It includes intentionally defacing, destroying, damaging, or littering any property of the Institute or any property of an individual within the Institute premises.
17. Unauthorized Access and Use of Facilities and Services: includes, but is not limited to unauthorized access or entry to institute buildings, structures or facilities, information systems, or obtaining or providing it to another person the means of such unauthorized access; entering a place in the University that the student is not permitted to enter, and duplication or use of keys or access cards for any institute property.
18. Unauthorized Use of Academic Material: It involves selling, distributing, website posting, or publishing course lecture notes, handouts, readers, recordings, or other information provided by an instructor or using them for any commercial purpose without the express permission of the instructor.
19. Refusal to Comply with Lawful Directions: It involves the unwillingness of lawful directives of institute officials and agents, including security personnel. It also includes contravening a reasonable and lawful order of institute officials and agents, including security personnel.
20. Attempts to Defraud: It includes any activity intended to misrepresent any official document or identification used by the Institute or making a statement to the Institute that the student knows to be false, including the provision of a falsified including a medical or some other kind of certificate.
21
21. Misrepresentation: It includes representing or acting on behalf of the Institute or another individual when not authorized to do so.
22. Plagiarism: KSBL has adopted HEC Plagiarism Policy to regulate the similarity index level of the research work of the students and faculty. KSBL shall also adopt HEC Plagiarism Policy and Guidelines changes as notified by HEC from time to time. Students found guilty of any of the above undesired and prohibited conducts will be subject to disciplinary inquiry which may result in severe punishments.
SOCIAL MEDIA CONDUCT
Students are required to adhere to the law of the land, KSBL policies, and generally accepted rules of decency in their social media conduct. Students are strongly advised to refrain from the following activities online:
1. Do not discuss your grievances regarding any matter at KSBL, your dislike or disagreement with a fellow KSBL student, faculty members or staff. Please discuss any grievance with KSBL with Student Services Department and resort to official channels of resolution. Resolves disagreements with faculty members, staff, or students in person without airing
any complaints online.
2. Publicize any disagreement with KSBL policies on social media. Policies are made with the best of intentions. In case you have a disagreement or wish to suggest improvements, feel free to meet Student Services and Examinations Departments or Registrar’s Office.
3. Unauthorized use of KSBL logo. KSBL logo shall not be used for any post/document unless officially authorized in writing.
4. Violate anyone privacy like posting about in-Campus issues or sharing personal information about any fellow student, faculty, or staff member online.
5. Share unauthorized photograph of a fellow student, faculty, or staff member without their permission.
6. Making fun of KSBL, its sponsors, employees, students, or anyone connected to KSBL. While humor is the best medicine, avoid its use on social media vis-à-vis KSBL. This includes posts, tweets, stories, cartoons, graphics, animations, videos etc.
7. Making unauthorized announcements on behalf of KSBL, faculty members, staff, or other students.
7. TEACHING METHODOLOGY
KSBL has a mixed pedagogy including case study method, interactive lectures, simulations, leadership and entrepreneurship projects and experiential learning. This mixed pedagogy approach will help students learn and deploy skills on their projects and will help them think and
22
act like managers and leaders. This teaching methodology will also enable students to achieve a high level of competence in functional areas of business including finance, accounting, marketing, management, strategy, operations, and others. Leadership and entrepreneurship projects are intended to be led by students to encourage a proactive and self-driven approach, and to start the process of team building and collaborative learning that will be present throughout the programs.
Experiential learning is a great opportunity for students to apply and practice their academic understanding, learning and classroom skills to the outside world. Students will get a chance to turn a class project into a real-life experience. Through this practical approach to learning, students will enrich classroom learning by bringing in their practical experience. Students will gain confidence in their own abilities and discover innovative ways to overcome obstacles and challenges, which will not only help them to grow in their professional life, but also add value to the organization. The programs will enhance students’ abilities to lead and manage organizations as well as their own businesses.
Programs require rigorous preparation for each class session. Hence, all students are required to read and prepare the recommended reading material before each class.
COURSE AND TEACHER EVALUATION
At KSBL, we believe that student feedback and suggestions are extremely vital for the improvement of the quality of courses and the programs. The performance of the course instructor and course is monitored through anonymous feedback provided by students in the form of final evaluations. The first evaluation is to be conducted in the 7th session (before the mid-term assessment). The second evaluation is to be conducted in the 14th session (before the final assessment).
CLASS SCHEDULE
Student Services Department will share a semester class schedule at the start of each semester. Unless inevitable, the classes are held as per schedule. Cancellation or rescheduling of any class is strongly discouraged but when this is done, all efforts are made to inform the students of such a change in advance to limit inconvenience.
ONLINE SESSION REQUEST
The student who is seeking to attend the session online due to any of the following reasons, so, the student will require to officially submit request in writing at studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk along with the evidence(s) mentioned.
23
Case | Required Documents | Action to be taken by SS
dept
Illness/Medical Reason | Medical Proofs e.g., Doctor’s prescription, certificate, and reports. | The Medical proofs are verified from the concerned Doctor/hospital.
Job Commitment (Seminar/field trip/training/workshop/ meeting etc) | A letter/email thru official account from the Line Manager, airline/bus ticket and brochure. Office meeting notification | The shared evidence will b confirmed from the concerned Line Manager/organization.
1.1. Once the required documents are verified, the request will be forwarded to the concerned faculty for approval.
1.2. Once the concerned faculty has approved, the Zoom (or a similar media) link will be shared with the student by keeping in loop to the concerned faculty as well. Moreover, the student must have to keep open camera during session.
1.3. CEVEAT: KSBL will not be responsible for any technical or connectivity issues as well as of any negative impact on the quality of teaching and learning experience (since the teacher will exclusively focus on the students in the classroom & Instructor is not responsible for 'catering' to the on-line student).
1.4. In case of student’s online session request is declined by the faculty, duly student will be notified by the concerned TA via studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk email account.
CLASS DISCIPLINE
Students are expected to be at the best of their behavior in their classes. They are required to stay focused and remain fully engaged.
FINAL CLEARANCE
Upon graduation or after withdrawal or separation, the student will be required to get a final clearance from KSBL. Students should take the clearance form from the Registrar's Office and then get it signed from the various departments concerned i.e. Admissions, Information Resource Centre, Student Services, Career Services, IT Department, Administration and the Accounts Office. In case of graduation without clearance (including KSBL Loan), the degree and transcript will not be awarded. In case of withdrawal or separation, if the clearance process is not completed, the security deposit will not be refunded.
24
8. DEPARTMENTS YOU MAY FREQUENTLY CONNECT WITH
ADMISSIONS OFFICE
The Admissions Office is responsible for selecting potential students after carefully evaluating their academic qualifications, professional work experience and KMAT /GMAT/GRE/GAT General test scores. In addition, each potential student is interviewed by the Admissions Committee for final selection.
admissions@ksbl.edu.pk

STUDENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT
The Student Services Department (SSD) is the first point of contact for all students and will serve as a hub for communication amongst students and all associated support offices. The SSD handles all academic activities of the students. studentservices@ksbl.edu.pk
CAREER SERVICES OFFICE
The Career Services Office (CSO) provides a diverse range of services to students and graduates as they undertake internships and job searches. These services include resume preparation, mock interviews, company presentations and interviews. The CSO also coordinates and organizes all student and club extra-curricular activities. It is responsible for arranging events, guest speaker sessions, study tours, field trips and other events as deemed appropriate by KSBL.
careerservices@ksbl.edu.pk

REGISTRAR’S OFFICE
The Registrar's Office support throughout the academic journey of a student. This office also handles matters relating to verifications of all academic documents with their relevant boards and universities. Additionally, issuance of transcripts, degrees, student status letters (bona fide, character/no objection certificate, medium of instructions CGPA conversion, graduation letter and issuance of letters for student travel) and arranging the convocation are the responsibilities of this office. No fee will be charged for letters except official transcript and degree.
registrar@ksbl.edu.pk

25
EXAMINATIONS DEPARTMENT
Examination Department will be responsible for all mid-term and final examination schedules, seating plans, and the conduct of these examinations. It will also be announcing your semester results and is the contact point for all examination related issues.
examination@ksbl.edu.pk

FINANCIAL AID OFFICE
The Financial Aid Office compiles essential information from a student’s financial aid application form, which is supported by an independent lifestyle and a physical survey of the applicant. The process of financial aid disbursement at KSBL is quite rigorous. The completed and verified information is put up to the Financial Aid Committee, which decides the financial aid package on a case-by-case basis.
financialassistance@ksbl.edu.pk

FINANCE & ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT
Your point of contact for all fee-payment related issues.
finance@ksbl.edu.pk

ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT
The Administration Department is responsible for providing support to all departments at KSBL. Key services that are provided by this department include maintenance, security and supervision of Cafeteria services. To ensure efficient functioning of KSBL operations Admin also supervises sports facilities, office mail and telephone exchange services.
admin.support@ksbl.edu.pk

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT
Today, technology is an essential tool for acquiring educationand conducting research. Our Information Technology Services Department (ITSD) provides state-of-the-art hardware, infrastructure and software to ensure high quality content delivery and uninterrupted servicesto all users.
itsupport@ksbl.edu.pk

The following document is KSBL's Student Advisement, Personal Counseling, and Assistance Policy

1
Student Advisement, Personal Counseling, and Assistance Policy
1. POLICY

It is the policy of KSBL to provide holistic and integrated advisement and counseling to the students on the secretarial aspects of the programs they are enrolled in, their educational and academic progression, and personal wellness.

2. STUDENT ADVISEMENT ON SEMESTER MATTERS

2.1 The Student Services Department shall be responsible for advising the students on semester-related matters, including course offering and faculty information, timetable information, registration for the courses, add and drop of the courses, course withdrawal, class attendance, semester freeze, etc., as provided in the academic rules of the institute.

2.2 The students may receive such advisement through a physical visit to the student services department or email communication.

3. OFF-THE-CLASS STUDENT SUPPORT

3.1 The faculty members shall remain available to the students for off-the-class support during the stated hours by replying to their questions and clarifying the points about the subject they teach them.

3.2 The faculty members shall earmark time proportional to the number of courses taught and the strength of the students and post the schedule outside their offices.
3.3 The online teaching faculty and the visiting faculty shall provide off-the-class support online.
3.4 Off-the-class support to students shall be a semi-formal student support system, not a centrally managed program.

4. STUDENT ADVISEMENT ON ACADEMIC PROGRESSION
4.1 Students shall be accorded steady observation of their academic performance and progress under the Academic Progress Advisement Program, mainly covering the following:
4.1.1 To monitor progress toward completing the academic program and to discuss grades and other performance indicators with special attention paid to students on academic probation.
4.1.2 To give special attention to the advisees on probation.
4.1.3 To refer the advisee to other institutional resources when academic and personal problems require intervention.
4.1.4 To interpret the institutional policies, procedures, and requirements for the students.
4.1.5 To get the hang of the teacher’s performance, the quality of teaching aids used in the classrooms, support infrastructure such as lab equipment, lab staff, TAs, sports facilities, etc., and share the feedback with the academic management.

2
4.1 Head of Program as Academic Advisor
4.1.1 The Head of the Program shall act as Academic Advisor and is expected to:
4.1.1.1 Demonstrate a concerned and caring attitude toward the advisees.
4.1.1.2 Be knowledgeable of institutional policies, procedures, regulations, and offerings.
4.1.1.3 Interact with faculty, cluster heads, Faculty Dean, student services, examinations, admin, etc., for receiving and sharing information about the advisees for effective advisement.
4.1.1.4 Be available to advisees if they request an individual meeting.
4.1.1.5 Exhibit effective interpersonal and communication skills.
4.2 Advisement Meetings
4.2.1 As a group, the academic advisor shall meet the advisees at least twice a semester, preferably in the 4th and 8th week or as deemed suitable by the academic advisor.
4.2.2 For distance learning students, such meetings shall be held online.
4.2.3 The first group meeting with the advisees shall be held during the orientation of the new intake to assist students with an initial adjustment to the institute’s academic life.
4.2.4 The academic advisor can require advisees to attend additional meetings on a group or individual basis.
4.2.5 Likewise, the academic advisors shall respond to requests from the advisees for additional individual meetings or contact.
4.2.6 The academic advisors shall communicate the schedule of group meetings to the advisees at the beginning of the semester.
4.3 Access to Advisees’ Data
The academic advisors shall have access to the advisees’ academic performance and conduct-related information, including the exam results, class attendance, documentation of appreciation, any incident of use of unfair means in examinations, disciplinary proceedings initiated against, etc.
4.4 Record Keeping
The academic advisor shall maintain a record of advisement proceeding with the batch and the individual advisees in a prescribed format and raise an accumulative report at the end of each semester.
5. PERSONAL COUNSELING
5.1 The students shall be provided counseling about their personal issues by a professional psychologist (counselor) where needed.
5.2 The institute shall establish a wellness center with professional expertise for providing personal counseling services.
3
5.1 Student Referral 
5.1.1 The Head of the Program/Academic Advisor shall refer the students (counselee) to the wellness center either on their own or on the recommendation of the faculty teaching the student or any other staff member supported by the observations.
5.1.2 The counselor shall attend to the student referred to the wellness center and discuss the concern.
5.2 Seeking Informed Consent of the Counselee
5.2.1 Based on the preliminary interaction with the counselee, the counselor shall decide if regular counseling is needed. In such a case, the counselor shall inform the counselee of the purpose, rules, and techniques of counseling and seek their consent to participation.
5.2.2 The student’s consent to participation in counseling shall also include agreeing to disclose the personal information required by the counselor and the limits of confidentiality.
5.2.3 The counselor may also contact the counselee’s parents and advise them to participate in the counseling process if required.
5.3 Counseling Sessions
5.3.1 The counseling sessions shall involve identifying and exploring the problem as specifically and objectively as possible.
5.3.2 To fully understand the problem, the counselor shall collect the needed information from all sources within the institute, including teachers, academic advisors, staff, etc., and the parents, and systematically organize it into a meaningful profile of the counselee and the problem.
5.4 Confidentiality of Personal Counseling
Committed to respecting the rights of the counselees, all information disclosed by them and their parents, which they deemed private, shall be treated confidentially.
5.5 Group Counseling & Wellness Education
5.5.1 The institute’s wellness center shall also offer group counseling to the students on aggregate issues and hold wellness educational sessions.
5.5.2 The wellness center shall prepare a calendar of group counseling and wellness education activities for each semester approved by the Dean.
5.5.3 The Dean’s office shall monitor the implementation of the group counseling and wellness education activities calendar.
5.6 Record Keeping
5.6.1 The wellness center shall maintain a record of the personal counseling with relevant details of the problem identified and the solution offered with the highest degree of confidentiality.
4
5.6.2 Likewise, the wellness center shall maintain a record of the group counseling and wellness education activities with the details of each session/activity for at least two years.
5.6.3 Access to personal counseling information shall be restricted to the counselor and the head of the wellness center. However, in special cases, the head of wellness may share the relevant information with the institute’s top management.
6. HELPING THE WEAK STUDENTS
6.1 Who is a Weak Student
6.1.1 Under this policy, the weak students shall be those who befall probation per the institute’s academic rules.
6.1.2 However, the program heads shall try to proactively identify at-risk students in the light of the midterm exam results, the formative assessments held till the midterm, and the input from the faculty.
6.2 Ascertaining Cause of Weakness
6.2.1 The academic advisor shall engage the students to ascertain the cause of weak academic performance and shall consult with the relevant faculty members and the head of the wellness center as well.
6.2.2 If the reason for weak performance happens to be non-academic, the academic advisor shall refer the student to the wellness center for counseling as provided under this policy.
6.2.3 However, if the unsatisfactory performance is academic, the deterrent courses shall be identified, and the matter shall be taken up with the respective faculty for academic assistance to the student.
6.3 Offering Supplemental Assistance
6.3.1 The weak students referred to the faculty shall be supported through extra attention and engagement in and out of the class.
6.3.2 Out of class, the weak students shall be allowed to ask questions, discuss issues, and even offer supplemental teaching where the relevant faculty member needs.
6.3.3 The faculty member offering supplemental assistance to the student shall decide the frequency of interaction with the student.
6.4 Record Keeping
The faculty members offering out-of-class supplemental assistance to the weak students shall maintain a log of supplemental assistance activities carried out with the students and share it with the head of the program.

The following document is KSBL's Academic Calendar for 2024.

KARACHI SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND LEADERSHIP		
ACADEMIC CALENDAR 2023-24		
BS M&E, IT&S, A&F, CS, EMBA, MBA and MSBA Programs		
SPRING 2024 SEMESTER (Monday, February 26, 2024)		
		
Activity	| Day & Date	| Remarks
Orientation for Spring 2024 batch	| Saturday, May 16th, 2025	
Course registration  starting and closing dates	| Thursday, February 15 to Thursday, February 22, 2024	
Conferences  & Seminars (Simerge)	| March 1, 2, 3, 2024	
Classes Commencement	| Monday, February 26, 2024	
Career Connect	| Wednesday, February 28, 2024	| The exact date to be announced by the Career Services dept later.
Eminent Speaker Series	| March 2024	| The exact date to be announced by the Career Services dept later.
Student Extracurricular Events	| Clubs and Society based time lines	| The exact date to be announced by the Career Services dept later.
Last Date for Course Add/Drop	| Sunday, March 10, 2024	
Last Date for Semester Freeze without fee	| Sunday, March 10, 2024	
Pakistan Day^	| Saturday, March 23, 2024	| Public Holiday
Death Anniversary of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto*	| Thursday, April 04, 2024	| Subject to the Sindh Govt Announcement
Faculty and Course Evaluation	| Monday, April 08 to Sunday, April 14, 2024	
Eid-ul-Fitr** (1st Shawal)	| Thursday, April 11 to Saturday, April 13, 2024	| Subject to the moon sighting
Last Date for Course Withdrawal	| Sunday, April 14, 2024	
Last Date for Semester Freeze with course(s) fee and "W" grade	| Sunday, April 14, 2024	
Mid-term Assessment  Week	| Monday, April 22 to Sunday, April 28, 2024	
Classes Resumption	| Monday, April 29, 2024	
Labor Day^	| Wednesday,  May 01, 2024	Public Holiday
Sessional Marks Submission/Display	| Thursday, June 13, 2024	
Faculty and Course Evaluation	| Monday, June 10 to Sunday, June 16, 2024	
Eid-ul-Azha**	| Monday, June 17 to Wednesday,  June 19, 2024	| Subject to the moon sighting;
Final Assessment  Week	| Saturday, June 22 to Friday, July 05, 2024	
"""I"" Grade application"	| Application  must be submitted  to the Student Services no later than 3 days of the first sitting of the final assessment.	
Result Declaration	| Sunday, July 14, 2024	
